Finding Files in Kali Linux
Three of the most common commands
used to locate files in Kali Linux
include find, locate, and which.
These utilities have similarities, but
work and return data in different ways
and are useful in different circumstances.
which
The which command searches through
directories defined in the
PATH environment variable for a
given file name.
This variable contains a listing of
directories that Kali searches
when a command is issued
without its path.
If a match is found, “which” returns
the full path to the file.
locate
The locate command is the quickest way to
find the location of files
and directories within the filesystem.
In order to provide a much shorter search
time, locate searches a built-in database
named locate.db rather than the entire
hard disk itself.
This database is automatically updated
on a regular basis by the cron scheduler
but it can also be updated manually
with the updatedb command.
To search for a given file, pass its
name to locate.
find
The find command is the most complex and
flexible search tool among the three.
Mastering its syntax can sometimes
be tricky,
but its capabilities go well beyond
a normal file search.
As a basic example, let’s perform a
recursive search
starting from the root file system
directory
and look for any file that starts
with the letters “sbd”.
The main advantage of find over locate
is that it can search for files
and directories by more than just
the name.
With find, we can search by file age,
size, owner, file type,
timestamp, permissions, and more.